#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Report
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Nicolò Pinciroli
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This project consisted in modeling a city by creating a city simulator.
 The goal of such a simulator should be the support of the decision-making
 process in urban development related tasks.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Since no data have been provided, the city has been generated by scratch,
 and some randomness has been introduced in order to create a slightly different
 setting every time the simulator is run.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The proposed web application is based on the WebGL technology and on the
 use of JavaScript, CSS and HTML.
 It hasn't been necessary to use a server for this purpose, since all the
 results can be computed on the user machine.
 This approach presents some advantages (for instance, there is no need
 to have a server to run the simulator) and some disadvantages (since the
 computation is performed by the user machine, performance strongly depend
 on the user machine and the simulation can take some seconds before something
 can be visualized).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Tools and libraries
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It is possible to use pure WebGL, without any additional library, to build
 the simulator.
 This approach certainly allows to go in depth in the structure of WebGL
 and to understand thoroughly the mathematical foundations of computer graphics,
 but it also presents some disadvantages.
 Firstly, creating tridimensional objects in WebGL requires to model them
 starting by creating points and triangles.
 Then, in order to create several objects with similar features, it can
 be a good idea to create a library containing some commonly-used functions.
 In this case, an example can be a function to create a cube, or a pyramid.
 The implementation of such libraries can require a huge amount of time,
 especially considering that the topics related to tridimensional modeling
 in WebGL will be covered after the submission deadline.
 There exist several libraries that allow to handle tridimensional scenes
 in WebGL with ease.
 Such libraries have been developed during several years by many developers,
 and I expect them to rely on well-established good practices and on an
 optimized code.
 Building such libraries in one month would probably not lead to the same
 result.
 Two disadvantages of using libraries, however, are that this assignment
 hasn't allowed me to learn the foundations of WebGL and that even if I
 need only for a few functionalities, I have to import the entire library.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The proposed solution, therefore, consists in using three.js, whose code
 is released under the MIT license and is used by thousands of developers,
 as shown on its GitHub page
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
https://github.com/mrdoob/three.js/
\end_layout

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Primitives
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Three.js certainly makes use of graphics primitives, and in particular it
 is based on triangles.
 However, this level of detail is hidden, therefore a programmer can create
 tridimensional objects directly, without having to define them using simpler
 objects.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I have also used, for debug purposes, the line primitive, that allows to
 model rays appropriately.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As for the other shapes, I have modeled buildings by using a box geometry,
 since they have the shape of a parallelepiped.
 On some buildings (the ones that represent the old buildings), there is
 also a roof, that has been modeled by using a cone geometry.
 In fact it appears as a pyramid.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Moreover, I have used planes to define the ground and the park (I have only
 two planes, but another possible implementation may have been to have several
 small planes and to assign to each plane a texture).
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Finally, I have modeled a semi-transparent sculpture by using a torus knot
 geometry.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Structure of a scene
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The scene has been created in a procedural way.
 Moreover, I have introduced some randomness related to the position and
 orientation of buildings, in order to create a slightly different scene
 every time.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The ground of the scene is represented by a plane, on which I have applied
 a texture to make it easily identifiable.
 The plane is at the same level as the bottom of the buildings.
 In a future development, it could be replaced by a terrain or by water
 (the purpose could be, for instance, to model a partially submerged city
 as a consequence of climate change).
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The park has also been modeled as a plane, that has been put on top of the
 ground plane.
 I have decided to position the park in the center of the city.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
My idea was to divide the city in two parts: a modern part, characterized
 by modern concrete buildings, and an old part, characterized by stone buildings
 with roofs.
 This is the reason why there are two different kinds of buildings on the
 two different sides of the park.
 This can be useful to model a city in which there is an historical center
 and a modern part, built afterwards, since the houses have different properties
, for instance from a seismic point of view.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The entire city is surrounded by a box representing the sky.
 The idea was to create an environmental map, in order to obtain a parallax
 effect, that should provide more realism.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The sun light has been modeled as a directional light and it rotates following
 a circular path.
 In order to improve the performance of the simulator, the sun can only
 move in ten different positions, that range from an angle of 0 degrees
 to an angle of 180 degrees (from dawn to sunset).
 Night hasn't been modeled, since I considered it outside the scope of this
 simulator.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Graphics pipeline
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The graphics pipeline hasn't been implemented explicitly, since it is part
 of the three.js library.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Shaders and lighting models
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Shaders haven't been implemented explicitly, since they have been defined
 in three.js.
 However, I had to define different materials in order to obtain different
 effects when the object surfaces interact with light.
 It is possible to easily add some objects that reflect the sun light but
 I haven't created them in order to keep the scene as clean as possible.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Cameras and projections
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There is one camera, that allows the user to explore the city.
 The current view has been implemented by using the orbit controller, that
 can be easily integrated with the main functionalities provided by three.js.
 Moreover, since many objects cast shadows, it is necessary to have an orthograp
hic camera to compute the shadow position, since the source of light responsible
 of the shadows is a directional light (the sun).
 However, this has been defined inside three.js.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Lights
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I have defined the sun light as a directional light and an ambient light.
 There aren't other lights, but three.js allows to insert them easily.
 Moreover, the position of the sun can change, therefore the direction of
 the light changes as well.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Raster and vector graphics, rasterization, textures and color
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I have defined a color in the case of the knot sculpture, while in many
 situations I have decided to define textures.
 In particular, I have looked for seamless textures, in order to obtain
 a more realistic and appealing result.
 The old buildings have a random texture, selected among several predefined
 textures.
 As for the other objects, there is only one texture per object.
 The textures I have used are bidimensional textures and they are not generated
 procedurally.
 I don't have to perform any operation related to UV mapping because such
 operations are defined by three.js.
 Rasterization has not been defined explicitly, but it is performed every
 time the scene is generated (that means, every time there is a change in
 the position and/or orientation of the camera).
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
